Adding 2024 recap blog post (#798)
AlmaLinux/almalinux.org: content/blog/2025-04-09-2024-recap.md

In case you were curious, there are two reasons we consistently release 6 days after RHEL. First: with our new build process, we have more work and testing to do before we are ready to release AlmaLinux to you. That work used to be complete in just over a day, but now it takes about 2 days. With new minor versions of RHEL typically being released on a Tuesday, we're typically ready to release late in the day on Thursday, but we care about our community too much to release on a Friday. :D

We also announced our brand new [AlmaLinux OS Kitten](https://almalinux.org/blog/2025-01-07-almalinux-os-kitten-10-updates/), which is a development-focused version of AlmaLinux OS, and currently serves as the stable preview of AlmaLinux OS 10.

{{< figure src="/blog-images/2025/kitten_2024_recap_blog.png" width="45%" alt="Screenshot of AlmaLinux OS Kitten Desktop" >}}

> While not many compared to the 1.4M+ of AlmaLinux OS 8 and 9, we already have a few thousand devices calling home running AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10! For a development branch, that's pretty cool. It also serves as the upstream for a couple projects, and is already helping projects based on AlmaLinux to get ready for AlmaLinux OS 10 - exactly what we were hoping for!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not many compared to the 1.4M+ of AlmaLinux OS 8 and 9, we already have a few thousand devices checking in with our public mirrorlist that are running AlmaLinux OS Kitten 10! For a development branch, that's pretty cool. It also serves as the upstream for a couple of projects, and is already helping projects based on AlmaLinux to get ready for AlmaLinux OS 10 - exactly what we were hoping for!
```
"calling home" sounds gross to me in this context, let's clarify what we mean by it and be more specific

also adds a missing preposition

Author: good catch, honestly. I should probably stop using that phrase.

As always, we have our amazing [Core, Infra, and Build SIGs](https://wiki.almalinux.org/sigs/) to thank for these speedy releases! They are hyper-focused on solving the needs of our user community - and getting our updates out the door fast is a bit of an obsession for them.

Speaking of community needs - your feedback helps make these releases successful! You can help by testing beta releases as they come out, reporting bugs, and answering comments and questions on the forums or in our chat.

This year we also added [support for Raspberry Pi 5's](https://almalinux.org/blog/2024-06-11-almalinux-support-for-raspberry-pi-5/), and started working with our upstream friends in Fedora and CentOS to prepare for the incoming RISC-V support! 

## Continuing to embrace our freedom

When we were surprised by [Red Hat's change in 2023](https://almalinux.org/blog/future-of-almalinux/), we were given a new freedom that we have been very happy to take advantage of. Due to the sudden nature of that change, though, the discussions around where to deviate from RHEL and what changes we might want to make were taking place in a relatively closed way.

> To fix that, we established the [AlmaLinux Engineering Steering Committee](https://almalinux.org/blog/2024-05-21-introducing-alesco/), or ALESCo! In short, ALESCo is a group of engineers heavily involved in using and developing AlmaLinux, formed into a committee that has been generally guiding the technical progression and growth of AlmaLinux as an operating system. It acts as a central collaboration point for the AlmaLinux SIGs and community in general, and is the driving force behind any deviations that AlmaLinux takes from our upstreams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix that, we established the [AlmaLinux Engineering Steering Committee](https://almalinux.org/blog/2024-05-21-introducing-alesco/), or ALESCo! In short, ALESCo is a group of engineers heavily involved in using and developing AlmaLinux, formed into a committee that has been generally guiding the technical progression and growth of AlmaLinux as an operating system. It acts as a central collaboration point for the AlmaLinux SIGs and community in general, and is the driving force behind any deviations that AlmaLinux takes from our upstreams while ensuring we maintain full compatibility with RHEL.
```
add more context that deviations don't break compatibility

## Growth in the AlmaLinux community

In 2024 we expanded the AlmaLinux community in every way you can imagine! We announced two new SIGs: the [HPC and AI SIG](https://almalinux.org/blog/2024-05-02-introducing-almalinux-hpc-ai-sig/) as well as the [Certification SIG](https://almalinux.org/blog/2024-09-10-announcing-new-certification-sig/)! We expanded the number of Sponsor members by 9, bringing us to a total of 34. We expanded the number of individual backers on [GitHub](https://github.com/AlmaLinux/) and [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/almalinux-os-foundation) to over 40. We expanded the number of mirrors in our global mirror system to over 450.

One of the easiest ways we've seen the evidence of our growth is in the exponential growth of devices calling home to the mirror system for updates. While this number only shows a fraction of the devices running AlmaLinux (because not everyone uses the public update system) it is a good representation of the continued expansion of our global community.

> {{< figure src="/blog-images/2025/2024-12-22-almalinux_devices_2024_recap_blog.png" width="45%" alt="AlmaLinux devices calling home for updates by week" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src="/blog-images/2025/2024-12-22-almalinux_devices_2024_recap_blog.png" width="45%" alt="AlmaLinux devices checking in for updates by week" >}}
```

{{< figure src="/blog-images/2025/sponsors_2024_recap_blog.png" width="45%" alt="AlmaLinux Sponsors at the end of 2024" >}}

## AlmaLinux Days - Germany and Tokyo!

In 2023, we hosted the very first [AlmaLinux Day in Tokyo](https://almalinux.org/blog/2024-02-01-aldt-recap/), and in 2024 we were able to host a second [AlmaLinux Day: Tokyo](https://almalinux.org/aldt-2024/) as well as [AlmaLinux Day: Germany](https://almalinux.org/almalinux-day-germany-2024/)! With 30+ speakers and over 400 attendees across those two events, we were able to reach a whole new audience and spread the word about AlmaLinux in a whole new way. With those events under our belt, we are definitely planning to continue to reach our audience in wholly new and unique ways!

The videos for AlmaLinux Day: Germany are on Youtube, and the videos from AlmaLinux Day: Tokyo should be up soon! 

{{< youtube id="P9pO0fPGVeo" width="65%" height="36%" autoplay="false" controls="true" mute="false" title="AlmaLinux Day Germany 2024 Keynote: The strength of the AlmaLinux Community" >}}

## Encouraging help in the greater open source community

> With our ever-growing community and the reach of AlmaLinux, we are constantly looking for ways to ensure that we're engaging with the greater open source world. Some are relatively little ways - like helping with the Distros room at FOSDEM and staffing the Valkey booth at OpenSource Summit EU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our ever-growing community and the reach of AlmaLinux, we are constantly looking for ways to ensure that we're engaging with the greater open source world. Some are relatively small ways - like helping with the Distros room at FOSDEM and staffing the Valkey booth at OpenSource Summit EU.
```
`little` just sounds weird to me here

> Some are bigger or more far-reaching ways - like submitting bug fixes and feature updates to projects that we use, or expanding the number of packages available in the enterprise Linux ecosystem by encouraging those who ask for their software to be packaged for AlmaLinux to, instead, become package maintainers for EPEL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some are bigger or more far-reaching ways - like submitting bug fixes and feature updates to projects that we use, or expanding the number of packages available in the enterprise Linux ecosystem by encouraging those who ask for their software to be packaged for AlmaLinux to, instead, become package maintainers for EPEL.
```

Should `enterprise` be capitalized?

Author: nah, in this case I'd say no.

These intangible ways that we are committed to improving the whole ecosystem are what you encounter if you come to the AlmaLinux chat. 

## 2025 and Beyond

It's been another busy year, but we're so grateful to every member of our AlmaLinux community! You are the reason that we exist, and I am continually amazed by the people all working together toward our common goals.

While a bunch of us were at FOSDEM earlier this year, we spent a day talking about the things that are impacting AlmaLinux most as we enter our 5th year. All of that planning and discussion will be shared in another post sometime soon. Keep an eye out to see what we're up to next!

> If you want to stay up-to-date, subscribe/follow/join/etc on[ our forum](https://forums.almalinux.org/), [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/AlmaLinux/), [X](https://twitter.com/AlmaLinux), [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@almalinux/), [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/almalinux.bsky.social), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/80320905/), [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/AlmaLinux), and [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCt9lpkqUPp1FUEi9uqVlPQA). We also launched a newsletter this year, which [you can subscribe to on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/newsletters/almalinux-news-7123058222835376128/) or [via email on our mailing list](https://lists.almalinux.org/postorius/lists/newsletters.lists.almalinux.org/).\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to stay up-to-date, subscribe/follow/join/etc on [our forum](https://forums.almalinux.org/), [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/AlmaLinux/), [X](https://twitter.com/AlmaLinux), [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@almalinux/), [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/almalinux.bsky.social), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/80320905/), [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/AlmaLinux), and [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCt9lpkqUPp1FUEi9uqVlPQA). We also launched a newsletter this year, which [you can subscribe to on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/newsletters/almalinux-news-7123058222835376128/) or [via email on our mailing list](https://lists.almalinux.org/postorius/lists/newsletters.lists.almalinux.org/).\
```
space shouldn't be part of the link

Author: yup, that was a typo. good catch.
